  
cybersecurity - methods, techonology and process to protect devices, systems, networks, data from damage, loss or/and unauthorized access. 
Correct actions and behaviors of people helps to keep the computer system safe.
It is very important to have a disaster and plan for recovery. Also as the first line defese educate humans.

InfoSec - Principle of Information Security - CIA triad - - confidentiality, integraty and availability.
confidentiality: data is kept confidential and private. People not authorized wont see the data. Avoid disclosure
integraty: make sure the data is authentic, accurate, reliable and free tampering. Data is not changed. Avoid alteration
availability: data is available to those who need it. Avoid Denial
Firewall helps avoiding those issues denial, disclosure and alteration


cybersecurity professionals looks for gaps or misconfigurations that can create vulnerabilities

Information protected require control and protection. Protection information system against unauthorized access, modification, destruction or DoS to authorized user.


authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA) - framework that controls resources, enforces policies and audit usage.
this helps screening users and keeping track of their activities while they are connected
Authentication - process of identifying and verifying a person or thing.
Authorization - process of controlling access to resources. Privileges to access certain areas
Accounting - tracks information of agent activities on computer devices and networks (time looged in, data sent and received, their IP). Usually is used for audit, analyze user trends, billing.


Threat landscape - include all known and possible threats to computer networks. This can help to identify weaknesses in the environment.

Threat intelligence must be relevant, actionable and contextual. Depends on the company what is intellgence they classified.

Understand the attack framework enables you to anticipate your nenmy's actions and counter them.

Bad actors:
-> explorer - 
phishing, usually reputable source (microsoft, amazon, ...) and require immediate attention
spear phishing social engineering attack targeting a specific individual or group
smishing use SMS
vishing VoIP, falsifies their caller-ID to appear as from a legitimate or trustworthy source (bank, charity shop, etc).

-> Hacktivist -
usually as group against corp, government
botnet - command and control server C&C -> DDoS

->cyberterrorist
usually targets infrastructure
spear phising

->cybercriminal
they only wants money
phising
ransomware - block access computer until get paid, encrypts the data

->cyberwarrior
unpatched vuln OS and apps. zero day exploit
national interest, national resources


cybersecurity threat is an action exploiting a vuln that cause harm to a device and/or network
->social engineering
->malware
->unauthorized access
->system design failure

birthday attack - exploits a weakness in some hashing algorithms, which is used to protect passwords
the weakness is that multiple input values produce the same output value


CVSS - Common Vulnerability Scoring System
it is used to assess computer system vulnerabilities. The score 0-10, 10 being the most severe
nvd.nist.gov

Threat Intelligence is evidence-based information about cyber attacks that cyber security experts organize and analyze. 
This information may include: Mechanisms of an attack. How to identify that an attack is happening.

Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT) is defined as intelligence produced by collecting, evaluating and analyzing publicly available 
information with the purpose of answering a specific intelligence question.


MITRE ATT&CK is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations.
mitre provides a common language and framework for discussing and analyzing cyber threats
STIX (Structured Threat Information eXpression) is a standardized XML programming language for conveying data about cybersecurity
threats in a common language that can be easily understood by humans and security technologies
TAXII, short for Trusted Automated eXchange of Intelligence Information, defines how cyber threat information can be shared via 
services and message exchanges. This is an app protocol for exchanging cyber threat intelligence CTI over HTTPS

Cyber Kill Chain and MitrAttck are cyberattack framework, analyze cyberattacks


digital forensics and analytics tools can help to detect, analyze and alert the security team. UEBA User and entity behavior analytics
is the process of gathering insight into the network events that users generate every day

malware - malicious software

attack vector is a method to illegally access or inhibit a network, system or facility
attack vector has 3 components: vulnerability, mechanism and pathway



cypher - AES, I did on orkut with Ricardo

digital key can be used for digital signature, encryption
public keys are often used to encrypt small pieces of data (hash data or another key)
The  type or size of the key used is determined by the type of cryptographic
the lengh and complexity are factors to determine how strong is the key
Larger keys are used for small piece of data (digital signatures, key transfers)

key or password + 128-bit salt value -> use a BCRYPT hash function generates -> enhanced key/password 

symmetric algorithm
is acipher used to encrypt/decrypt data using the same key
DES,3DES,AES,blowfish,RC4,RC5 and RC6

asymmetric
Diffie-Hellman, RSA, ECC, PGP, GPG, DSA
not advantage to encrypt large amount of data, it is slow.












